README.md, before:

# Grift

Grift is a very simple library that allows you to write simple "task" scripts in Go and run them by name without having to write big `main` type of wrappers. Grift is similar to, and inspired by, [Rake](http://rake.rubyforge.org).

## Why?

Excellent question! When building applications there comes a point where you need different scripts to do different things. For example, you might want a script to seed your database, or perhaps a script to parse some logs, etc...

Grift lets you write these scripts using Go in a really simple and extensible way.

## Installation

Installation is really easy using `go get`.

```text
$ go get github.com/markbates/grift
```

You can confirm the installation by running:

```text
$ grift jim
```

## Usage/Getting Started

Apart from having the binary installed, the only other requirement is that the package you place your grifts in is called `grifts`. That's it.

By running the following command:

```text
$ grift init
```

When you run the `init` sub-command Grift will generate a new `grifts` package and create a couple of simple grifts for you.

#### List available grifts

```text
$ grift list
```

#### Say Hello!

```text
$ grift hello
```

## That's it!

That's really it! Grift is meant to be simple. Write your grifts, use the full power of Go to do it.

For more information I would highly recommend checking out the [docs](https://godoc.org/github.com/markbates/grift/grift).


### Examples:

```go
package grifts

import (
	"errors"
	"fmt"
	"os"
	"strings"

	. "github.com/markbates/grift/grift"
)

var _ = Add("boom", func(c *Context) error {
	return errors.New("boom!!!")
})

var _ = Add("hello", func(c *Context) error {
	fmt.Println("Hello World!")
	return nil
})

var _ = Add("hello", func(c *Context) error {
	fmt.Println("Hello World! Again")
	err := Run("db:migrate", c)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	dir, err := os.Getwd()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	fmt.Printf("### dir -> %+v\n", dir)
	return nil
})

var _ = Add("env:print", func(c *Context) error {
	if len(c.Args) >= 1 {
		for _, e := range c.Args {
			fmt.Printf("%s=%s\n", e, os.Getenv(e))
		}
	} else {
		for _, e := range os.Environ() {
			pair := strings.Split(e, "=")
			fmt.Printf("%s=%s\n", pair[0], os.Getenv(pair[0]))
		}
	}

	return nil
})

var _ = Namespace("db", func() {
    Desc("migrate", "Migrates the databases")
    Set("migrate", func(c *Context) error {
            fmt.Println("db:migrate")
            fmt.Printf("### args -> %+v\n", c.Args)
            return nil
    })
}
```

Commit message:

Make listing the grifts behave more like Rake
Grifts without descriptions are not shown by default.

README.md, after:

# Grift

Grift is a very simple library that allows you to write simple "task" scripts in Go and run them by name without having to write big `main` type of wrappers. Grift is similar to, and inspired by, [Rake](http://rake.rubyforge.org).

## Why?

Excellent question! When building applications there comes a point where you need different scripts to do different things. For example, you might want a script to seed your database, or perhaps a script to parse some logs, etc...

Grift lets you write these scripts using Go in a really simple and extensible way.

## Installation

Installation is really easy using `go get`.

```text
$ go get github.com/markbates/grift
```

You can confirm the installation by running:

```text
$ grift jim
```

## Usage/Getting Started

Apart from having the binary installed, the only other requirement is that the package you place your grifts in is called `grifts`. That's it.

By running the following command:

```text
$ grift init
```

When you run the `init` sub-command Grift will generate a new `grifts` package and create a couple of simple grifts for you.

#### List available grifts

```text
$ grift list
```

Grifts without descriptions are not shown by default. To show these, add the `-a` flag.

```text
$ grift list -a
```

#### Say Hello!

```text
$ grift hello
```

## That's it!

That's really it! Grift is meant to be simple. Write your grifts, use the full power of Go to do it.

For more information I would highly recommend checking out the [docs](https://godoc.org/github.com/markbates/grift/grift).


### Examples:

```go
package grifts

import (
	"errors"
	"fmt"
	"os"
	"strings"

	. "github.com/markbates/grift/grift"
)

var _ = Add("boom", func(c *Context) error {
	return errors.New("boom!!!")
})

var _ = Add("hello", func(c *Context) error {
	fmt.Println("Hello World!")
	return nil
})

var _ = Add("hello", func(c *Context) error {
	fmt.Println("Hello World! Again")
	err := Run("db:migrate", c)
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	dir, err := os.Getwd()
	if err != nil {
		return err
	}
	fmt.Printf("### dir -> %+v\n", dir)
	return nil
})

var _ = Add("env:print", func(c *Context) error {
	if len(c.Args) >= 1 {
		for _, e := range c.Args {
			fmt.Printf("%s=%s\n", e, os.Getenv(e))
		}
	} else {
		for _, e := range os.Environ() {
			pair := strings.Split(e, "=")
			fmt.Printf("%s=%s\n", pair[0], os.Getenv(pair[0]))
		}
	}

	return nil
})

var _ = Namespace("db", func() {
    Desc("migrate", "Migrates the databases")
    Set("migrate", func(c *Context) error {
            fmt.Println("db:migrate")
            fmt.Printf("### args -> %+v\n", c.Args)
            return nil
    })
}
```
